One winter evening, in a princely palace at Ferrara, Don Juan Belvidero
was giving a banquet to a prince of the house of Este. A banquet in
those times was a marvelous spectacle which only royal wealth or the
power of a mightly [sic] lord could furnish forth. Seated about a
table lit up with perfumed tapers, seven laughter-loving women were
interchanging sweet talk. The white marble of the noble works of art
about them stood out against the red stucco walls, and made strong
contrasts with the rich Turkey carpets. Clad in satin, glittering with
gold, and covered with gems less brilliant than their eyes, each told
a tale of energetic passions as diverse as their styles of beauty.
They differed neither in their ideas nor in their language; but the
expression of their eyes, their glances, occasional gestures, or
the tones of their voices supplied a commentary, dissolute, wanton,
melancholy, or satirical, to their words.

One seemed to be saying--"The frozen heart of age might kindle at my
beauty."

Another--"I love to lounge upon cushions, and think with rapture of my
adorers."

A third, a neophyte at these banquets, was inclined to blush. "I feel
remorse in the depths of my heart! I am a Catholic, and afraid of hell.
But I love you, I love you so that I can sacrifice my hereafter to you."

The fourth drained a cup of Chian wine. "Give me a joyous life!" she
cried; "I begin life afresh each day with the dawn. Forgetful of the
past, with the intoxication of yesterday's rapture still upon me, I
drink deep of life--a whole lifetime of pleasure and of love!"

The woman who sat next to Juan Belvidero looked at him with a feverish
glitter in her eyes. She was silent. Then--"I should need no hired bravo
to kill my lover if he forsook me!" she cried at last, and laughed, but
the marvelously wrought gold comfit box in her fingers was crushed by
her convulsive clutch.

"When are you to be Grand Duke?" asked the sixth. There was the frenzy
of a Bacchante in her eyes, and her teeth gleamed between the lips
parted with a smile of cruel glee.

"Yes, when is that father of yours going to die?" asked the seventh,
throwing her bouquet at Don Juan with bewitching playfulness. It was
a childish girl who spoke, and the speaker was wont to make sport of
sacred things.

"Oh! don't talk about it," cried Don Juan, the young and handsome giver
of the banquet. "There is but one eternal father, and, as ill luck will
have it, he is mine."